\--What is data engineering
Data engineer reasons:
	Data is scattered
	Not optimized for analyses
	Legacy code is causing corrupt data
	facilitar la vida de los científicos de datos
El ingeniero de datos extrae datos de fuentes diferentes y los carga en una sola base de datos (Analytical database) lista para usar. Al mismo tiempo, han optimizado el esquema de la base de datos para que sea más rápido realizar consultas.

What is a data engineer?
A: An engineer that develops, constructs, tests, and maintains architectures such as databases and large-scale processing systems.

Their focus:
	Processing large amounts of data
	Set up clusters of machines to do the computing
	Develop scalable data architecture
	Streamline data acquisition
	Set up processes to bring together data
	Clean corrupt data
	Weel versed in cloud technology


\--Tools of the data engineer
Los ingenieros de datos utilizan herramientas que procesan datos rápidamente. El procesamiento de datos puede ser necesario para limpiar o agregar datos o unirlos de diferentes fuentes. En lugar de procesar los datos en una computadores, los ingenieros de datos usan grupos de máquinas para procesar los datos.

Processing: before loading it into a destination analytics database.
	Clean data
	Aggregate data
	Join data
	Organize
	
Scheduling: Asegúrase de que los datos se muevan de un lugar a otro en el momento correcto, con un intervalo específico.
	Plan jobs with specific intervals
	Resolve dependency requirements of jobs
	
Existing tools
Databases:
	MySQL, PostgreSQL.

Processing:
	Apache Spark, Hive

Scheduling:
	Apache Airflow, Oozie, Cron

\-- Cloud providers
Data processing in the cloud because of the cons of the self-host data-center (cover electrical and maintenance costs; Peaks vs quiet moments, disaster will strike; need differente geographical location)

Cloud service pros: Optimización de costos; Confiabilidad de la base de datos.

Servicios de Cloud providers:
	Storage (Almacenamiento): Permite cargar archivos de todo tipo a la nube.
		AWS S3
		Azure Blob Storage
		Google Cloud Storage
	Computation (Computación): Permite realizar cálculos en la nube; Puede iniciar una máquina virtual y usarla como desee. Ex: Alojar servidores web
		AWS EC2
		Azure Virtual Machines	
		Google Compute Engine
	Databases (Base de datos): Alojar bases de datos
		AWS RDS
		Azure SQL Database
		Google Cloud SQL

Resumén: 
	
    Storage: use the cloud to store unstructured data, like files.
    Compute: use virtual machines in the cloud to do complex calculations.
    Database: use databases, typically SQL, in the cloud to hold structured data.
